Hello and welcome to another lecture here we actually only have two of these left so you're making great
progress in this lecture.
We're going to be learning about Jason and how we can process that data and you might be saying Jason
what the heck is J sound.
Well here's W3 schools.
This is a great Web site if you want to learn anything web they have awesome stuff.
I think on Ishmail and CSSA that's where I've used the most for but they've also got it on other things
and so for example Jason here it technically stands for javascript object notation but the javascript
part throw you off there it's used with almost any programming language out there and it's basically
a way for computers and code to be able to talk to one another and sort of a unified standard way.
In our last app where we did guess the celebrity was a little bit of an issue that when we were downloading
the 8th to mail we had to you know sift through and get the celebrity names and the image you are else.
And if they decided to change how they processed or you know put out their HMO code it would break our
app and you know like basing our app on their Web site.
Bad idea.
But there's a lot of companies out there that will put out something called an API which allows people
to consume Jaison from them and it's in a standard format and sort of those companies spit shaking problems
that hey we're not going to change how this API delivers data.
It's always going to come through and Jaison like this.
And if we ever do have a new version that will be a separate you are l to say OK here's version 2 of
our API that's typically what we see people do.
So yeah Jaison is the way that data is formatted in API is usually where you can get that information.
So for example here's what Jason could look like.
You know you've got like these curly brackets here and it's sort of a key value store almost like he'd
see in a dictionary where say hey what's someone's name.
It's John what's age 31 What city are they in New York type of thing and you can also have Jason where
you've got a raise in there.
Let's see if there's anything on this list.
It looks like maybe we'd have to go to Jay sun rays to see that so you can see all sorts of different
data types that you can be passing through here.
But so for the example that we're going to be using here is we're going to go get the whether this is
an awesome example of why you'd use an API because if you don't have an API you know if you want an
app to tell the weather you've got to get weather information somehow right so you could go try and
collect all that data yourself or there's tons of great companies here that say hey we've collected
all the weather information we've made it easy for you to access it and you can just display it there.
So if we go ahead and go to this open weather map org and if we go to our API we can go check out their
documentation.
They have a list here of how you can go ahead and use their information.
So for example if we want to know what the weather's like in London UK if we go ahead and click on this
they give us this nice sample you are all here and it'll tell us oh hey you know this is in the Jason
format right.
So it kind of just looks like a bunch of jibberish here.
But this is kind of a cool thing if you do just search pretty Jaison like this.
There's all sorts of different.
Jason formatters and stuff but just go ahead and pick one of these if we copy select all this text and
copy it and then paste it over here and say process it sort of puts it in this nice easy consumable
format so it's showing you OK there's the top level sort of dictionary here and we can get the coordinates
for London now we can get the weather where it's going to show that it's currently you know a drizzle
by intense intensity drizzle.
Also inside of here we can get like the current temperature and things like that.
The visibility the wind like all sorts of different pieces of information here that you can grab.
So sometimes it's a little bit easier to see things in this situation.
So my challenge to you is I want you to set up a new Android project where you can download this data.
So this isn't HDMI all this is Jason but you're still going to follow the same format of creating and
extending your own a sync task right and going and getting that information.
So I want you to get as far as downloading the information from this you are l and then we'll move forward
with changing that and customizing it to our app can't go ahead and hit pause.
Now all right so hopefully that went well for you.
I want you to open up Android studio so that you can start a new project.
So go ahead and give that a second to open there.
I said one big thing here is we're trying to just download the data so I'm going to go ahead and call
this Jaison demo and we'll just go ahead and do defaults for all this great stuff.
Android studio will get out and do its thing and just wanted to take a moment to say there's API is
for almost all the big Web sites out there.
Google Maps has an API.
Facebook has an API Twitter has an API.
I mean you name it.
There's probably an API out there.
I personally have an app that sends out text messages and there's this awesome service Twilio that allows
you to work with their API to send text message text messages to people programmatically.
That's pretty cool.
I mean there's just all sorts of things that once you sort of get in this world of working with API
you're going to be amazed at how many different ways you can work with it.
So now that we're here and we have some code let's go ahead and start our new class or we're going to
save public class download download task and we're going to say that this extends a sync we give our
auto complete a second here.
There we go.
Async task.
And in this situation again Swannie use string comma void comma string because in the end we want to
spit back some Jaison Jaison string there.
So let's go ahead and implement those methods.
Ok to that and I'll give us some room here on the left side.
All right.
So now that we're here in this do in background we want to change this to you or else that's kind of
our classic thing right.
And we just want to go through our regular flow here.
So if you'd like to feel free to go ahead and copy and paste this from another lecture if you don't
want to type this all out again but maybe you'll enjoy sort of getting another shot at practicing this.
But going to have a place for our results something for r u r l.
Also here we've got to go ahead and oops
see here and there we go get the import there then we need an h t t p or L connection that we are going
to call your L connection.
Excellent.
All right so once we got those pieces in place and I guess initially We'll set this equal to nil.
Once we have those pieces in place it's time to surround our next bit of code in a try catch.
So we'll say that we want to be like looking out for our exception.
We all do our E dot print stack trace also with this want to go ahead and return nil or no.
If there's some sort of issue with our code.
All right.
So now that we're here we're going to create a new u r l object.
We're going to create this from the Uriel's first object.
Next thing that we want to do is set up our your L connection to be a u r l dot open connection.
I've got to go ahead and cast that.
So it's CGP your L connection after we've done that.
We'll go ahead and create an input stream we'll call in and say this is your real connection to get
input stream.
Excellent.
And once we have that in place we're going to make an input stream reader that we'll just call reader
will say this is a new input stream reader guess I got to do with the capital line to get that auto
complete which will pass and and after we've got this in place we'll go ahead and do.
Are you going to go to do lowercase there and data.
This is where we'll say it read or read and once we've done that we'll go ahead and do a little while
loop here and we'll say while data is not equal to negative 1.
Go ahead loop through and do yo thang.
So with this we need to make sure we're going to call called current set equal to the data whatever
it currently happens to be.
Then we'll say results plus equals our current character just like that.
And then the last thing that we need to do is we need to say okay data is equal to reader read and that
will move us on to our next bit.
And we also need to make sure we return the particular string that we have here.
So we are going to return the result just like this.
So with this in place there's one sort of extra special thing that I want to do here and that's there's
another method that we can provide here.
So what we're going to do is.
So while we're still inside of this class right right now we have this do in background.
I'm going to provide an extra methods and just talk about what we can do here.
So this is going to be called on post execute.
So the lower case on post and you can see there's the on post to execute if we just hit enter.
It's going to go auto complete all of that for us.
And this is basically our chance to write some code when this has finished running.
And so basically the do in background code this should never touch anything from the UI perspective
this is all supposed to happen on the background while on post.
Execute this is where you could go touch something in the user interface so we're not going to do that
right now.
But essentially the string that comes through here this is whatever the result was above.
So for the time bein we're just going to go ahead and log this information so we'll say log I.
And we'll just say this is our Jason and we'll go ahead and provide whatever the string is because that
should be the case on data that we're getting back.
So kind of a cool little variance thing that I wanted to show you there with this information and I'm
going to go ahead and get our emulator up and running because we know sometimes how long it takes to
get that going there we're going to go to our on create method and inside of here we're going to first
create a new download task.
And that's not coming up I must say given a different name there down download task down load.
There we go.
So let's try that again download task.
That's what I'm looking for.
Well just go ahead and call this task and say this is equal to a new download task.
Then with this task we want to say task not execute.
Right.
And this is where we want to provide it some string for you are all that we want it to go and grab.
So in this case let's go back to here and where we have this.
You know your all that gets us this information we just want to go ahead and copy this directly.
We'll go back to android studio and put that inside of the curly brackets.
So this goes and gets the weather for London in the U.K. We've also got this app idea and here that
I think allows us to access this information because there's open weather app to use all of their API.
They recommend that you get an API key.
It is free but they just want to be able to monitor to see how much they're using their API.
But typically when you're just doing a small amount of requests you're not going to get any issues from
them with having things flare up.
So with this this should go execute.
And when we get to this part it should log the Jaison that we have so let's go ahead and open up a log
cat and we will restart our app and here we go
came out and I just forgot one crucial thing we got to make sure that we go ahead and ask for Internet
permission here.
Well go ahead and make some space say use permission.
We want the Internet and we'll go ahead and close that up.
All right.
So with that in place let's go ahead and run our app.
And here it comes.
Give it a second here to load up inside of the emulator.
There we go.
Finally finished up their
an app opens up and look at that.
Here comes our Jason.
Shown showing the coordinates the weather.
All that good information.
We don't need all this information.
Oh even look at that.
It's not like the sunset in the sunrise.
Pretty cool detailed information but we kind of got to take this information and then allow the user
to get to it in order to do that we have to process this information in the way that we're going to
do this is we're actually going to use something called a Jaison object and it's going to be a really
cool way to move through this data.
So inside of this on post execute this is where we're going to write the good chunk of our code here.
And the big thing that we want to do is we want to take this string and we want to convert it to an
actual J sound object so because we know this is coming through is Jaison rather than a bunch of H.T.
male we can actually turn into this chase object and work with the data a little bit more elegantly.
We don't have to you know do a split and Redjacket to find all these things with Jaison it's much much
simpler to work with.
So the first thing that we want to do is create something called a sun object and make sure you hit
enter on that so you get the import and or call our new variable here.
Just chase on object and we're going to set this equal to a new J sound object.
And this is we need to fill it with a string here that's one of the options that it could be.
And so we're going to fill it with S which is the string that's going to be the result so we'll go ahead
and put s inside of there.
If you're confused at all about why we should do as you could rename the result if you'd like to.
But I think it's fine as just as this does have to be surrounded in a try catch.
Let's go ahead and do our fun little curly bracket there.
Catch and with our catch We're looking for exceptions
in which case we would do a print stack trace.
An exception I forgot to hit enter on that.
And I also expel misspelled exception.
Well that's all I need to do.
Now I can print that.
All right.
So now we've got this Jaison object we can use it to sort of dive in to this code a little bit so if
we go ahead and look at this Jason formatter the main thing that we want to move into is the weather.
So the weather contains all this cool stuff like oh there's a drizzle.
And while it looks like that's the only thing right now you may be seen different when you're running
this.
But this will actually give us a ray of some weather information.
So what we need to do is go back to our app here and we need to make a new string.
So when I say string weather info we're going to set this equal to our Jaison object not yet string
and inside if we want to pass the key of getting into that piece of data.
So to get to this weather information we have to provide weather right here.
So we're going to go back to our code and type in lower case whether it's got to make sure you spell
exactly the same capitalization everything.
But if we do this it should give us whatever the weather content is so we can go ahead and do a log
here will say log I will say something like weather content and will say that this is going to be equal
to weather info or print that out.
So with that in place let's just go ahead and run this see what that looks like and this will tell us
the next steps that we need to do in order to pull out some more information from this weather API.
So we've got our map here looks like it opened up and look it up.
There's our weather content now gave us back an array.
And in the cerate only has one object in this thing with the curly brackets but inside of here this
is where the main in the description is.
And it's an array because sometimes there's going to be multiple things going on maybe there's a drizzle
maybe there's like some thunderstorm coming out maybe it's getting sunny again but there could be multiple
objects coming back here.
So we need to handle this as an array and in order to do that we're going to create something called
a Jaison array.
So what this Jaison array will just call it are for short just a little array.
When you say this is equal to a new Jason array and it needs to get some sort of string or other Jason
objects or going past weather info in there.
OK.
Now once we've done that because this is an array we can go ahead and loop through it.
So we're going to do a for loop and inside this for loop will say ok for ant is equal to zero and wall
eye is less than whatever the array's length is we'll do array dot length just like that means we want
to keep moving forward and then we'll just say I plus plus So this will really loop through everything
here.
Then down below it's going to be our job to get the object at this particular array location so we're
going to call this a Jaison object that we'll just call Jaison part because it's just part of the array
not the whole thing and will do array get Jaison object.
And now we have to pass the index.
And so what we're going to give it is I write because we're going to start a few get us the zero position
the one the two the three right.
It looks like right now as of doing this there's maybe only one and I guess that's just what the weather
is in the UK.
You could be running this there'll be three or four things.
But you know it's going to change and that's what's so cool about API is this it's live data.
So then with this we want to go ahead and just log this out make sure that this is working.
So the first thing is we want to show the information for and if we go back to log cat you'll see this.
We want to know what Maine is.
And we want to know a description so we can say like there's a drizzle.
What does it mean.
Light intensity drizzle I know that's kind of a lame description there but that's what we're going for.
So the first one is we're going to call this main.
And as far as the string that we're going to attach there we have to get to our Jason part right which
we had just pulled out of here out of the array or say some part get string and we have to provide what
we're looking for so if we say Main here it's going to get us drizzle if we say description it's going
to give us light intensity drizzle.
So for the first one I'll just provide main.
We're going to do a very similar thing here for our next one and this is going to be descriptions and
you know it might even just be best to copy and paste directly from there.
Because let me tell you the these.
Jason APC's they are unforgiving if you don't have the information exactly right.
Things are not going to work.
And but the nice thing is you can rely on Jaison API to always be the same in the same format as long
as you prepare for that you're going to be OK.
So we'll go ahead and have this emulator here ready to go and look at that it popped up so if we go
down to a log cat look at that it shows drizzle and light intensity drizzle.
So again hopefully if you're running this you can see more than one I think it just so happened when
I was running this that we only have one thing coming through there but this is a nice introduction
how to work with API is in Jaison hopefully you saw how this was a lot cleaner than going through with
you know doing some red jacks or we had to split a string into multiple pieces right like this is works
much better.
Also the API is great.
Like we can go to the Web site here for open weather and it's going to tell us exactly how this thing
is going to look like if we go back here.
And as a full breakdown of what this should be as opposed to remember with the top 100 celebrities they
could change their website at any moment.
And also an app just explodes we're here you know there's kind of a standard there saying yeah this
is how we're going to give you back information.
And if this was ever to change I want you to notice this flash data slash 2.5 so they have earlier versions
of their API.
I assume there's like a 2.4 2.3 there might have been a one point something but the idea is that you
can bank on these API and say you know what they're given as long as I follow 2.5 and I asked for 2.5.
I'm going to get that back.
So hopefully enjoyed learning about Jason.
We just have one more big lecture here to finish off this section.
I know this has been a really big one so congrats on you for getting this far.
Let's go ahead and dive into that next one now.